I own a supermarket or grocery store that can accommodate more than 250 people per day. What should I do?
Should the municipality close the library, arena, or municipal pool?
In the context of the measures put in place by the government, how can municipalities ensure that the public nature of tender openings is protected and that the contracting process remains transparent?
Do students have to write the ministerial examinations?
Which tourist accommodation establishments are considered essential?
May seasonal campers go to their campground without staying there to perform certain work that would prevent damage during the thaw (e.g. removal of protective winter tarps to prevent humidity)?
What safeguards for the protection of personal information on a list of electors should a municipality include?
Will parents who can no longer use educational childcare services during the emergency situation have to pay for these services?
What adjustments will be made to the student financial assistance program in response to the crisis?
How will citizens know when the by-election will be held?
Would it be a good idea to catch the virus so that I would be immunized afterwards, i.e., to develop resistance to the virus?
Is it possible to retrieve my animal which is currently in an animal boarding house?
Should an establishment be closed after a certain number or percentage of employees develop symptoms?
How can I limit the spread of the disease while grocery shopping in store?
How can parents register their child at an educational childcare centre during the emergency situation?
Are public consultation meetings required by law or regulation to be held?
Can I bring my reusable bags at the grocery store?
Is hosting in one’s home loved ones or family members who reside in another dwelling or going for a walk with them allowed?
What will happen if the municipality is administered by the Commission municipale du Québec because it no longer has a quorum and cannot hold an election or poll?
What can I do to contribute to Québec’s food autonomy?
What is the effect of the health emergency on the process of dividing the municipality into electoral districts as set out in the Act respecting elections and referendums in municipalities (AERM)?
Is it risky to buy unpackaged produce?
Will students have to make up this lost school time this summer?
Which countries are most at risk?
The government of Quebec said that financial compensation would be paid to non-subsidized day cares. What does this compensation cover?
I was informed that my application was inadmissible and I want to contest the decision. Can I do that, even if the program has ended?
Can an employee be dismissed for refusing to work in an at-risk location?
Is it preferable to avoid all public spaces?
My PATT application is on hold, because I’m waiting on a decision regarding Employment Insurance, which I have notify the Red Cross of as soon as I get it. What happens if I received the EI decision after April 10?
I no longer have any income. What must I do?
How is COVID-19 spread?
Is consideration being given to extending the deadline for filing an Application for review regarding a property assessment roll in force as of January 1, 2020?
Why is the Minister of Health and Social Services adopting measures for municipalities?
I own a sugar shack. Do I have to close my establishment completely?
Which jobs do essential services include?
What effect does the postponement of a referendum meeting or process have on the effect of interim control on development?
Will regional elected representatives be able to use the money paid to them from the Fonds régions et ruralité (FRR) to provide direct support to businesses affected by measures to combat COVID-19?
Can a person who does not have symptoms spread COVID-19?
Should I wear gloves to protect myself?
How long will it take to receive a reply regarding applications that are currently being processed?
We have joint custody, which means moving from one household to another throughout the week. Should we maintain this system?
Do places of worship (churches, mosques, synagogues, etc.) need to close?
Could the arrival of spring and the warmer weather affect the spread of COVID-19?
Can COVID-19 be spread by contact with the feces of a person who is sick?
Can teachers continue to assign work, particularly if access to laboratories or to materials available only on campus is required in order to do an assignment?
Can the COVID-19 virus be transmitted through food?
I had leased my tourist residence through a collaborative accommodation platform (such as Airbnb); however, the tenants cancelled the reservation. What are my obligations to the tenants?
Will these measures be available to the English sector?
How can citizens be heard when a minor exemption or conditional use application is brought before the council?
Should I be worried about the COVID-19 situation?
The support payments I make are collected by Revenu Québec. Why can’t Revenu Québec stop collecting these payments during the pandemic?
How will the extended closure impact Aide financière aux études (AFE)?
We live in different regions. Should we still proceed with the change of custody?
Are municipalities required to hold public council meetings?
Should municipalities purchase N95 masks and other similar medical equipment to protect their employees?
I am a debtor of child support and no longer have an income or have a reduced income. Do I still have to comply with the child support order?
Can a municipality change the terms and conditions for paying municipal tax bills?
How can parents find an educational childcare centre during the emergency situation?
Is the notice of election issued before the declaration of a health emergency valid? Can the election be held?
Can the assistance paid out as part of the student financial assistance program be quickly recalculated, to take into consideration the reduced income of recipients as a result of the current economic instability?
By what means will elected officials be able to participate in council meetings remotely?
Will my monthly payments change after the six-month postponement period is over?
Police are limiting travel in and out of which health regions and territories in Québec?
What will happen to ballots marked at an advance poll already held?
May the owners of tourist accommodation establishments (tourist residences, bed-and-breakfasts, youth hostels, etc.) other than hotels and certain campgrounds lease their facility to travellers who must put themselves in quarantine?
What relief measures are being provided under the Festivals and Tourism Events Financial Assistance Program?
Do elected officials have general discretionary power under the decree declaring a health emergency and ministerial orders issued pursuant thereto?
How can I stay in touch with family and friends, wherever they are, during physical distancing and the fight against the pandemic?
If I’ve already financial assistance under the PATT, will I still be able to receive the CERB?
How should I clean my environment?
Which municipal employees are eligible for emergency childcare?
Are supermarkets established outside a shopping centre and offering grocery or hardware services allowed to sell ornamental plants?
Can restaurants remain open?
Can the public continue to use mass transit?
What do you do if a child exhibits symptoms?
Is production of ornamental plants recognized as an essential service?
Will specific measures be taken when students and personnel return to educational institutions?
I have symptoms of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) or I have COVID-19. What can I do to take care of myself?
Should I ask food handlers to wear gloves?
Must tenants who already occupy a chalet leased before March 29 shorten their stay and leave immediately?
Is it possible to deliver food or essential items to elderly people living at home?
I’m worried because my ex-spouse works in healthcare.
What can I do if I am an informal caregiver and feel that my everyday life has been disrupted?
Are tourist accommodation establishments open?
Are room rental and infrastructure sharing agreements maintained?
Can COVID-19 spread in drinking water?
If I wait for my income situation to stabilize before asking for a support payment modification, can my income reduction during the pandemic be taken into account?
Can I continue to eat food from abroad?
If, prior to the declaration of a health emergency, the deputy minister had sent correspondence to the returning officer establishing a maximum time frame for setting the polling date, does that time frame still apply?
Can children play on playground equipment?
Why is the Temporary Aid for Workers Program (PATT) ending?
What are the appropriate public health directives in this emergency situation?
Do emergency daycare services have the necessary capacity to continue their services for additional weeks?
Is it recommended not to go to work?
Can garden centres who accept online orders could offer home delivery or store pickup?
Should the internships of adult learners be postponed?
My non-subsidized day care is no longer offering emergency services; how can I find another day care?
What will happen to candidates who were elected by acclamation?
Can government grant diplomas to students who have not written their final or ministerial exams?
What does "some teaching and research activities" mean?
What is a health emergency?
How can I limit inconveniences for my child if it becomes hard to respect the usual custody rights?
Are visits permitted to hospitals, residential and long-term care centres, intermediate resources and family-type resources for the elderly and vulnerable adults and private seniors’ homes?
If I have to cancel a trip abroad, will I be reimbursed for what I have already paid?
I have symptoms of COVID-19. Can I use public transit or taxis?
I am currently repaying my loan directly to the Ministère de l'Éducation et de l'Enseignement supérieur. Does this announcement apply to me?
Which schools are closed or open?
Who must hotel owners address if they wish to offer their services to accommodate persons in need?
Do I have to use hot water to wash my hands or clothes? What temperature kills the virus?
Must physical distancing measures be implemented if there are several groups in the same school?
Is it true that the by-elections planned in some municipalities will be cancelled because of the coronavirus pandemic?
I have travel plans. Should I cancel them?
If the number of electors provided for in the AERM has sent a notice of objection to the draft by-law or to the by-law dividing the territory into electoral districts, does the municipality have to hold the public meeting provided for in the Act?
What steps should municipalities that have adopted a public participation policy take?
I am responsible for animals but my business being closed, what care should I make sure to provide them?
Do the special rules provided for in the government decree and the ministerial orders infringe on the rights of citizens?
Are animal shelters currently open?
Am I entitled to sick leave?
What festivals and events are eligible for the relief measures?
Is this the first time that Québec has declared a health emergency?
Can I try to reach an agreement with my ex-spouse to modify the support amount?
Which priority municipal services have to be maintained?
Are children less at risk?
Is motorcycling allowed?
Is it possible to go home to one of these regions following a trip abroad?
Do the standards for public service employees apply to municipal staff?
Are garden centres included in essential services?
What are the main symptoms associated with COVID-19?
I applied for assistance under the PATT and haven’t received a reply. What’s going to happen now that the program is ending?
If I must go into self-isolation, what instructions must I follow?
Does the visibility agreement provided for under the Festivals and Tourism Events Financial Assistance Program need to be renegotiated?
Can I still make loan repayments?
How should I care for a child or an older adult who is sick?
Is council entitled to sit until council vacancies are filled?
What happens to truck drivers from outside our borders?
Do the closings of public spaces that the Québec government has announced concern grocery stores and drugstores?
What can food establishment operators  do to minimize risks of contagion?
Are there special precautions surrounding the preparation of take-out food or food for delivery?
As a food handler, which precautions should I take?
Is wearing a mask protect me effectively against COVID-19?
Will measures be implemented to foster students’ learning from home, such as online courses?
Is it recommended to make a household bleach cleaner at home?
Does the possibility of holding council meetings in camera not undermine transparency for citizens?
What will happen to the internships of students in education?
What cleaning and sanitizing methods are effective against coronavirus in food establishments?
Can food be contaminated by COVID-19?
Can my pet catch COVID-19? Can I catch the disease from my pet?
Can a returning officer publish a notice of election for an election to be held after April 26, 2020?
What can snowbirds returning from a trip do if they have no other residence than their summer trailer or motor home?
Do municipalities have the legal means to address an anticipated deficit at the end of the fiscal year?
Will parents who use educational childcare services during the emergency situation have to pay the cost of childcare?
Can an animal get the coronavirus and transmit it to me?
What rules apply to municipalities with respect to personnel management in the context of a health emergency?
I am currently using the Deferred Payment Plan. How will this postponement of repayments change my situation?
Should I comply with the custody and access order?
Is there any treatment for COVID-19?
Are all childcare personnel required to work in this emergency situation?
Can COVID-19 be spread through bodily fluids such as blood, sweat or semen?
What is recommended for washing items made of fabric (hand towels, table napkins, work jackets, etc.)?
Why isn’t everyone being tested?
Is it possible for my agricultural business to continue operating a farm sales stand?
I can no longer pay my employees because of the COVID-19 crisis. Which programs can I refer them to?
Can mosquitos transmit the coronavirus?
Can financial assistance for postponed or cancelled festivals and events be transferred to the 2021 edition?
Do the special rules provided for in the government decree and the ministerial decree infringe on municipal autonomy?
Do I have to continue paying my student loan?
I’m worried about COVID-19 transmission risks arising from changes of custody of my child.
Do grocery stores have to clean the grocery carts?
What is physical distancing? Is it really effective in slowing the spread of COVID-19?
Should an increase in food prices be expected?
Last March 23, the Gouvernement du Québec ordered the closing of non-essential businesses and services up to May 4. Why is the closing of non-essential tourist accommodation establishments required until further notice?
Is it normal that the boarding establishment where my animals are staying has changed their services in the current context?
Do I have to pay interest on my student loan during this period?
If a customer coughs and has symptoms, should I tell them to leave the grocery store?
I am returning from a trip. What do I have to do?
What about vocational training and adult education?
Should an employee who is 70 years of age continue to work?
What authority is responsible for intervening in case of non-compliance with the different health measures imposed by the Gouvernement du Québec?
Can COVID-19 cause a food shortage?
Can an individual go to a hospital to visit a loved one who is dying?
What should an educational childcare centre do if a child appears to exhibit symptoms of COVID-19?
What can I do to relieve a sore throat?
If the PATT no longer exists, where can I obtain financial assistance?
Can an educational childcare centre refuse to accept a child?
What are the preventive measures to take in my food business?
How were the exceptional measures determined?
Is it safe or are we allowed to babysit the children of friends or relatives to help them out?
Occupants recently left my tourist residence. What are the preventive measures to take to protect my family and me from COVID-19?
Is it permissible to live during confinement with an elderly loved one residing in the same region in order to offer the person assistance?
Must the reservation of a tourist residence for a stay scheduled in July be cancelled?
What is the effect of the health emergency on the municipality's application to the Commission de la représentation électorale (CRÉ) to maintain the electoral division of the municipality in its 2017 status?
Are detection tests effective if you don’t have symptoms?
When should I wash my hands?
Is it possible to retrieve my horse in a boarding establishmentsand to transport it to a new establishment?
My child is currently in Elementary 6. Will the current situation have an impact on whether my child will move on to secondary school?
Should referendum votes be held?
I am a taxi driver. What can I do to protect myself and my customers?
Will children who attend the emergency daycare centres have access to educational services?
Will applications that have already been submitted to the PATT still be reviewed?
Will my application for the PATT automatically be forwarded to the CERB?
If a garden centre does not produce its plants, but offers online shopping, can it sell other horticultural products?
Should internships be postponed?
If I am abroad, do I have to immediately come home?
Is is possible to deliver food to people in hospitals, residential and long-term care centres, intermediate family-type resources for seniors and vulnerable adults and private seniors’ homes?
What hours will educational childcare centres be open during the emergency situation?
Where can I get information about the situation?
My child has learning difficulties and might forget some of the acquired learning. Will measures be implemented in this regard?
Can children accompany their parents in grocery stores, drugstores and other public spaces?
What should I wash my hands with?
What happens to referendum processes that have already been initiated?
Does my employer need to take any extra steps to protect workers’ health?
What children qualify for educational childcare services during the emergency situation?
I’m worried because my ex-spouse takes public transit.
When will the cancelled by-elections be held?
I own an animal boarding establishment. Can i take on new animals at this time?
Can my employer put me on unpaid leave because of the coronavirus?
Which institutions are closed or open?
How long can COVID-19 survive on objects?
Do people with a job on the list of Workers who are entitled to emergency childcare services have to provide proof of this to their day care?
If an event receiving financial assistance and scheduled to take place between May 1 and October 31, 2020, is cancelled, will this have an impact on applications for 2021–2022 (e.g., submission of a new provenance or attendance study)?
Can the residents of residential and long-term care centres, family-type intermediate resources for seniors and vulnerable adults and in private seniors' homes leave the facilities for medical appointments?
What instructions apply to children in shared custody?
Who is at risk of complications after contracting COVID-19?
Is it possible for a municipality to establish and manage a food assistance fund?
Can pregnant women who are giving birth be accompanied by a loved one?
How can I stay in touch with family members or friends when visits to residential and long-term care centres (CHSLD) are not allowed?
Can I get my animal tested for COVID-19?
Will a general directive be issued for civil servants concerning teleworking?
How can I ask for help?
I have symptoms of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) or I have COVID-19. What can I do to protect people around me?
Are any measures planned to meet the nutritional needs that some children may have?
How will the rest of the financial assistance be paid out?
Should I wash all the packaged food items I buy at the grocery store?
Should the municipality cancel sporting or cultural events held within its boundaries?
Is an intervention plan required?
What should I do if my financial situation is too difficult and I can’t reach an agreement with my ex-spouse?
Will financial assistance applications submitted to the ministry be processed within the usual timeframe?
What are the options for municipalities if there is a lack of labour, equipment, or supplies to deliver services, such as road maintenance?
During this period, will the government continue issuing approved financial assistance?
Is is it possible to deliver essential items to people in hospitals, residential and long-term care centres, intermediate family-type resources for seniors and vulnerable adults and private seniors’ homes?
Can the virus that causes COVID-19 be contracted by airborne transmission, i.e., from the air?
Under what circumstances should the mayor of a municipality use his or her power to decree any expenditure and award any contract in accordance with section 573.2 of the Cities and Towns Act and section 937 of the Municipal Code of Québec?
What income is used when determining child support?
What to do if a food handler in a food establishment tests positive for COVID-19?
Why is it hard to determine or review child support payments during the COVID-19 pandemic?
What is the effect of not publishing an election notice before April 26, 2020?
How can producers sell their plants while adhering to public health directives?
There are queues at the grocery store, the pharmacy and in designated evaluation clinics. Isn’t there a risk of spreading the virus?
What medications should I take to relieve my symptoms?
Can the virus that causes COVID-19 survive on food if it is frozen, microwaved or cooked in the oven?
Which measures are available for my business to cope with the financial difficulties it faces?
Can school-age children be accepted at an educational childcare centre during the emergency situation?
Can a municipality use a list of electors in its possession to communicate information about the pandemic and health emergency to its citizens?
Are pregnant women at risk?
Can students and parents return to school to pick up their essential personal effects?
Are there any foods, supplements, vitamins or natural health products that can be used to prevent or treat COVID-19?
If there is a case of COVID-19 at a day care, what should be done?
How can I get legal advice for my specific situation?
Can ornamental plant producers who take orders online, by email or by another remote method deliver their products?
Is it possible for a municipality to issue tax receipts to citizens who contribute to such a fund?
Is it possible to deliver parcels to these regions?
If there is a change to one of the elements taken into account when calculating support payments, should I hurry to apply for a review?
If, prior to the declaration of a health emergency, the deputy minister had sent correspondence to the returning officer setting the polling date, does that date still apply?
As a consumer, can I do anything to support the agri-food sector?
Is it preferable to self-isolate and stay home in the coming weeks even if individuals are not returning from a trip?
I only offer bulk food. Should I close?
Will these six months be included in the eligibility period for the Deferred Payment Plan?
I work in the private sector and I have to self-isolate. Can my employer fire me?
Can a municipality declare a local state of emergency under current COVID-19 health emergency conditions?
Will educational childcare centres provide meals and snacks?
Will tuition fees be reimbursed for the period during which students are not in school (ACS, private colleges)?
Can the municipal council adopt by resolution the draft by-law or the by-law for division into electoral districts, as provided for in s. 14 and 21 of the AERM?
Does this measure apply to all my student loans?
How will we know when the pandemic has peaked?
How can I teach my children about hygiene and prevention measures?
Can I have contact with my pet if I have COVID-19 or if I am waiting for my test result?
What will happen to any nomination period scheduled between now and April 26, 2020?
If my employees do not qualify for Employment Insurance, what else can I do for them?
Do the restrooms of take-out restaurants remain accessible to customers?
Where can I find general information about family law?
I need to repay my Advance Payment Program (APP) advance before April 30th. Is it possible to delay this payment?
Will the owners of tourist accommodation establishments (tourist residences, bed-and-breakfasts, youth hostels, etc.) be entitled to financial assistance to offset rental losses?
Should municipalities prohibit access to park modules and playgrounds?
I received an email explaining how to accept a bank transfer. Should I accept it, even if the PATT has ended?
May tenants who leased a chalet several weeks ago to stay there between March 29 and May 4, 2020 go there?
Can a municipality request that the Chief Electoral Officer produce a new list of electors for the purpose of communicating with citizens during a health emergency?
Should students’ internships be postponed?
If a person has shared custody of their child, can the person go to one of these regions to get their child?
Who can access these regions?
Are there any plans in place regarding students who expect to graduate from college or university?
I pay spousal support and no longer have an income or have a reduced income. Do I still have to comply with the support order?
How many children can a day care accommodate?
What must do an animals’ owner or caretaker if he is infected by COVID-19 or think he is?
Does the RAMQ cover health services provided by means of telecommunications?
What do you do if an educator exhibits symptoms?
Can municipalities allow businesses wishing to participate in a public tender to submit their bids electronically?
A municipality lacks liquidity or has reached the limit of its line of credit, following changes in procedures for payment of tax bills. What means can it consider?
Is it possible for a person who is moving to one of these regions to do so?
Can I request social assistance?
Do I have to apply to have my repayment postponed?
Can a person enter one of these regions to visit a family member in hospital in an end-of-life situation?
What can I do to relieve a fever?
How should the RCM use the funds from part 2 of the FRR (which has replaced the Fonds de développement des territoires) if it decides to implement assistance specifically for businesses affected by the fight against COVID-19?
Apart from the referendum vote, can the other stages of the referendum process take place?
Are property sales for non-payment of municipal or school taxes suspended?
What can I do if I can’t come to an agreement with my ex?
Can tradespeople or loved ones be asked to carry out work in the home?
Could other measures be added to those already set out?
With respect to by-elections to be held at a later date, which rules will apply to election expenses already incurred and, in general, which rules will apply to election financing?
When will the first financial assistance instalment be made?
Can I replace antiseptic gel with other products found in the home?
Are there any special precautions I should take before eating take-out food or food for delivery?
Are municipalities required to hold council meetings?